<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><rss version="2.0"
	xmlns:content="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/content/"
	xmlns:wfw="http://wellformedweb.org/CommentAPI/"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
	xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"
	xmlns:sy="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/syndication/"
	xmlns:slash="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/slash/"
	>

<channel>
	<title>meeting &#8211; openSUSE Lizards</title>
	<atom:link href="https://lizards.opensuse.org/tag/meeting/feed/" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml" />
	<link>https://lizards.opensuse.org</link>
	<description>Blogs and Ramblings of the openSUSE Members</description>
	<lastBuildDate>Fri, 06 Mar 2020 11:29:40 +0000</lastBuildDate>
	<language>en-US</language>
	<sy:updatePeriod>hourly</sy:updatePeriod>
	<sy:updateFrequency>1</sy:updateFrequency>
	<generator>https://wordpress.org/?v=4.7.5</generator>
	<item>
		<title>OpenStack Infra/QA Meetup</title>
		<link>https://lizards.opensuse.org/2014/07/23/openstack-infraqa-meetup/</link>
		<pubDate>Wed, 23 Jul 2014 13:54:38 +0000</pubDate>
		<dc:creator><![CDATA[bmwiedemann]]></dc:creator>
				<category><![CDATA[Infrastructure]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[Quality Assurance]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[cloud]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[meeting]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[openstack]]></category>

		<guid isPermaLink="false">http://lizards.opensuse.org/?p=10928</guid>
		<description><![CDATA[Last week, around 30 people from around the world met in Darmstadt, Germany to discuss various things about OpenStack and its automatic testing mechanisms (CI). The meeting was well-organized by Marc Koderer from Deutsche Telekom. We were shown plans of what the Telekom intends to do with virtualization in general and OpenStack in particular and [&#8230;]]]></description>
				<content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>Last week, around 30 people from around the world met in Darmstadt, Germany to discuss various things about OpenStack and its automatic testing mechanisms (CI).<br />
The meeting was well-organized by Marc Koderer from Deutsche Telekom.<br />
We were shown plans of what the Telekom intends to do with virtualization in general and OpenStack in particular and the most interesting one to me was to run clouds in dozens of datacenters across Germany, but have a single API for users to access.<br />
There were some introductory sessions about the use of git review and gerrit, that mostly had things I (and I guess the majority of the others) already learned over the years. It included some new parts such as tracking &#8220;specs&#8221; &#8211; specifications (.rst files) in gerrit with proper review by the core reviewers, so that proper processes could already be applied in the design phase to ensure the project is moving in the right direction.</p>
<p>On the second day we learned that the infra team manages servers with puppet, about jenkins-job-builder (jjb) that creates around 4000 jobs from yaml templates. We learned about nodepool that keeps some VMs ready so that jobs in need will not have to wait for them to boot. 180-800 instances is quite an impressive number.<br />
And then we spent three days on discussing and hacking things, the topics and outcomes of which you can find in the etherpad linked from <a href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Qa_Infra_Meetup_2014">the wiki page</a>.<br />
I got my first infra patch merged, and a SUSE Cloud CI account setup, so that in the future we can test devstack+tempest on openSUSE and have it comment in Gerrit. And maybe some day we can even have a test to deploy crowbar+openstack from git (including the patch from an open review) to provide useful feedback, but for that we might first want to move crowbar (which is consisting of dozens of repos &#8211; one for each module) to <a href="http://ci.openstack.org/stackforge.html">stackforge</a> &#8211; which is the openstack-provided Gerrit hosting.</p>
<p>see also: <a href="http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=9574">pleia2&#8217;s post</a></p>
<p>Overall for me it was a nice experience to work together with all these smart people and we certainly had a lot of fun</p>
]]></content:encoded>
			</item>
		<item>
		<title>Tokamak4</title>
		<link>https://lizards.opensuse.org/2010/02/26/tokamak4/</link>
		<comments>https://lizards.opensuse.org/2010/02/26/tokamak4/#comments</comments>
		<pubDate>Fri, 26 Feb 2010 13:36:42 +0000</pubDate>
		<dc:creator><![CDATA[Klaas Freitag]]></dc:creator>
				<category><![CDATA[Desktop]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[Events]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[KDE]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[event]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[meeting]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[plasma]]></category>

		<guid isPermaLink="false">http://lizards.opensuse.org/?p=3333</guid>
		<description><![CDATA[For the last seven days we were hosting the KDE Plasma Team doing their developer meeting called Tokamak4 here in at the Nuremberg offices of Novell. It was great for SUSE to see the twentyfife KDE enthusiasts hacking on one of the most important parts of the KDE software compilation. On monday we had the [&#8230;]]]></description>
				<content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>For the last seven days we were hosting the KDE Plasma Team doing their developer meeting called Tokamak4 here in at the Nuremberg offices of Novell. It was great for SUSE to see the twentyfife KDE enthusiasts hacking on one of the most important parts of the KDE software compilation.</p>
<p>On monday we had the pleasure of a public event with four highly interesting talks given by the Plasmas in our allhands area in Maxtorhof. Will Stephenson was sheding some light on the old days where SuSE already was  hosting a sprint for KDE. I guess in that days we still called it &#8220;developer meeting&#8221;, but it was basically the same concept. It happened in an office building called Schanz which was still SuSEs but not in use these days. Will had some cool photos of well known KDE developers, partly with  more hair and less bally than nowadays, hacking on KDE3. I think the meeting was in 2003, so it is great to see how many people are still around in the community.For me that was the first KDE meeting I participated, working on my scan application called Kooka. Fun.</p>
<p>After that Aaron Seigo was talking about <a href="http://techbase.kde.org/Projects/Plasma">Plasma</a> as a cross device and cross form factor concept, Marco Martin was presenting very interesting stuff about <a href="http://techbase.kde.org/Projects/Plasma/Plasma-Netbook">KDEs Netbook shell</a> and finally Sebastian KÃ¼gler was introducing <a href="http://techbase.kde.org/Projects/Silk">Silk</a>, the project to free the web from the browser. It was a very inspiring evening which closed with good discussion over some drinks. I like to thank the KDE guys for giving the presentations and our guests for showing up. </p>
<p>The rest of the week was full of concentrated work for the Plasmas, watch out on <a href="http://planetkde.org">planetkde</a> for various posts. </p>
<p>From the openSUSE perspective it was a pleasure to host the meeting, it was very nice to meet you all again. Thank you all for being our guests. It was fun and as a result we really want to continue the idea. </p>
<p>openSUSE is upstreams friend and we are convinced that  personal meetings are the most effective way to make progress. So if your community is watching out for a place to meet, innovate and hack, let us know, I am sure we can arrange something.</p>
]]></content:encoded>
			<wfw:commentRss>https://lizards.opensuse.org/2010/02/26/tokamak4/feed/</wfw:commentRss>
		<slash:comments>1</slash:comments>
		</item>
		<item>
		<title>Indonesian openSUSE Monthly Meeting-May 2008</title>
		<link>https://lizards.opensuse.org/2008/05/27/indonesian-opensuse-monthly-meeting-may-2008/</link>
		<pubDate>Tue, 27 May 2008 09:34:49 +0000</pubDate>
		<dc:creator><![CDATA[Masim "Vavai" Sugianto]]></dc:creator>
				<category><![CDATA[Miscellaneous]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[meeting]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[openSUSE-ID]]></category>

		<guid isPermaLink="false">http://lizards.opensuse.org/?p=33</guid>
		<description><![CDATA[Last week, Indonesian openSUSE community (openSUSE-ID) had a regular monthly meeting on Saturday, May 24, 2008. for promotional and marketing benefit, we choose Detik.com-currently biggest online newspaper in Indonesia) office at Aldevco Octagon Building Jakarta as our location for meeting. This is our sixth regular meeting since November 2007. As scheduled on my previous post, [&#8230;]]]></description>
				<content:encoded><![CDATA[<p><img style="800px" src="http://www.vavai.com/blog/uploads/kopdar6-1.jpg" alt="" /></p>
<p>Last week, Indonesian openSUSE community (openSUSE-ID) had a regular monthly meeting on Saturday, May 24, 2008. for promotional and marketing benefit, we choose Detik.com-currently biggest online newspaper in Indonesia) office at Aldevco Octagon Building Jakarta  as our location for meeting. This is our sixth regular meeting since November 2007.</p>
<p>As scheduled on <a href="http://lizards.opensuse.org/2008/05/23/today-agenda-opensuse-id-monthly-meeting/">my previous post</a>, this meeting covering up some agenda, ie : openSUSE 11.0 features preview, knowledge share about zypper package manager, our preparation for booth on IGOS Summit 2 event, openSUSE 11.0 release party and openSUSE on Live USB demo.<span id="more-33"></span></p>
<p><img src="http://www.vavai.com/blog/uploads/vavai.jpg" alt="Vavai on presentation" width="512" height="384" /></p>
<p>Meeting started on 09.30 am (GMT+7), opening by <a href="http://www.vavai.com/blog/index.php">Vavai</a> from openSUSE-ID and <a href="http://andryshuzain.com/">Andry S Huzain</a> from Detik.com. Vavai describing about community in general, overview and next plan in 2008. Andry told us about the implementation of Linux project on Detik.com, beside his activity with Mac OS.</p>
<p><img style="800px" src="http://www.vavai.com/blog/uploads/kopdar6-2.jpg" alt="" /></p>
<p>Next session fill in by Donnie S Bhayangkara (Poepil). He gave a presentation about zypper usage, from adding, modifying and removing repos to package modification with zypper. He show the different style between yast, smart and zypper and told us about zypper improvement on openSUSE 11.0.</p>
<p><img src="http://www.vavai.com/blog/uploads/donnie.jpg" alt="Donnie - Poepil on presentation" width="512" height="384" /></p>
<p>Vavai enclosed the meeting with preview of OpenSUSE 11.0 features and <a href="http://lizards.opensuse.org/2008/05/21/opensuse-liveusb-with-kiwi/#more-28">OpenSUSE LiveUSB</a> creator with KIWI.</p>
<p><img style="800px" src="http://www.vavai.com/blog/uploads/kopdar6-3.jpg" alt="" /></p>
<p>Session of meeting activity could be found <a href="http://picasaweb.google.co.id/a.yulandi/KopdarOpenSuse6">here</a> and <a href="http://picasaweb.google.co.uk/indrayana.mb/OpenSUSEKopdar624Mei2008?authkey=LS_7MZK0HzU">here</a></p>
]]></content:encoded>
			</item>
		<item>
		<title>Discussing Garden Ornaments</title>
		<link>https://lizards.opensuse.org/2008/05/14/discussing-garden-ornaments/</link>
		<pubDate>Wed, 14 May 2008 10:12:03 +0000</pubDate>
		<dc:creator><![CDATA[Andrew Wafaa]]></dc:creator>
				<category><![CDATA[Events]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[GNOME]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[meeting]]></category>

		<guid isPermaLink="false">http://lizards.opensuse.org/?p=13</guid>
		<description><![CDATA[Well, it&#8217;s more the ornaments of the garden having a discussion ð The GNOME Team are holding their meeting tomorrow Thursday 15th May at 1600GMT/UTC/ZULU (or translate it into your local time).Â  As always you can get sight of the agenda,the main themes for this week are PulseAudio, PackageKit, and installation patterns. So if you [&#8230;]]]></description>
				<content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>Well, it&#8217;s more the ornaments of the garden having a discussion <img src="https://s.w.org/images/core/emoji/2.2.1/72x72/1f642.png" alt="&#x1f642;" class="wp-smiley" style="height: 1em; max-height: 1em;" /></p>
<p>The <a title="openSUSE GNOME" href="http://en.opensuse.org/GNOME">GNOME Team</a> are holding their meeting tomorrow Thursday 15th May at 1600GMT/UTC/ZULU (or <a title="Meeting time in your local time" href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?day=15&amp;month=5&amp;year=2008&amp;hour=16&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=0">translate</a> it into your local time).Â  As always you can get sight of the <a title="openSUSE GNOME meeting page" href="http://en.opensuse.org/GNOME/Meetings/">agenda</a>,the main themes for this week are <a title="PulseAudio @ GNOME.org" href="http://live.gnome.org/PulseAudio">PulseAudio</a>, <a title="PackageKit in 11.0" href="http://en.opensuse.org/PackageKit">PackageKit</a>, and installation patterns.</p>
<p>So if you have any suggestions, questions or complaints please join in on <a title="openSUSE GNOME's irc channel" href="irc://irc.freenode.net/opensuse-gnome">irc</a> and get you voice heard.Â  Remember we are a community that <em>like</em> to work together.Â  If you want to try and influence anything within openSUSE then don&#8217;t be passive and sit in the background grumbling, stand up and join in.Â  This goes for <strong>all</strong> aspects of openSUSE, not just GNOME.Â  We won&#8217;t bite, but we may disagree.Â  From that disagreement we can hopefully get to an amicable compromise, or at the very least explain the decisions that have been made.</p>
<p>So please join use tomorrow and try and make GNOME even better under openSUSE <img src="https://s.w.org/images/core/emoji/2.2.1/72x72/1f642.png" alt="&#x1f642;" class="wp-smiley" style="height: 1em; max-height: 1em;" />Â  As it happens the <a title="openSUSE KDE" href="http://en.opensuse.org/KDE">KDE Team</a> have their meeting today at 1800GMT/UTC/ZULU (<a title="Meeting time in your local time" href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=5&amp;day=14&amp;year=2008&amp;hour=18&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=0">translation</a> to local).</p>
]]></content:encoded>
			</item>
	</channel>
</rss>
